Re-structured configurable logging concept (#609)
kyma-project/community: concepts/observability-configurable-logging/02-agents.md

See also [more detailed here](../observability-opentelemetry/README.md)

### Logs - Fluent-Bit
Fluent-Bit is the log collector traditionally used in Kyma, being part of CNCF and widely adopted on Kubernetes. It is vendor-neutral and supports a variety of generic outputs, so that it can integrate with quite some backends. If a backend is not supported, you can use the fluent-specific Forward protocol to connect a FluentD, providing an even richer ecosystem. It will scale out perfectly by running on every node with a minimalistic resource footprint.

### Logs - FluentD
Written in Ruby and being more resource-extensive than Fluent-Bit, FluentD presents a valid alternative to Fluent-Bit. However, it is usually recommended as the central application that does not run on every node but handles the central aggregation and shipment to the backend.

### Logs - rsyslog
Rsyslog also supports a variety of inputs and outputs. Here, mainly the built-in Kubernetes support is missing.

### Logs - Logstash

> Logstash is a popular project with a rich ecosystem with built-in Kubernetes support. It's developed under the Elastic umbrella and has a clear addiction to use ElasticSearch as a backend.

Author: ```suggestion
Logstash is a popular project with a rich ecosystem with built-in Kubernetes support. It's developed under the Elastic umbrella and is mostly seen in usage of ElasticSearch as a backend.
```

**Logs - Promtail**
Is not vendor-neutral on the output side, mainly designed for the Loki backend

> **Logs - Flume**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Logs - Flume
```

> Seems to have no active community anymore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flume seems to have no active community anymore.
```

> **Traces - OpenCensus/Jaeger Agent**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Traces - OpenCensus/Jaeger Agent
```

Wait, didn't you say the following documents focus on logging?

Author: jo, still here I tried to cover the whole area, that will stop later

Both agents are deprecated in favor of using otel-collector.

> **Metrics - Prometheus**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Metrics - Prometheus
```

> Prometheus is a collector and backend at the same time. While you could reduce the backend settings to a minimum and mainly use the metrics forwarding to act as a collector/forwarder, the solution will still be not flexible. Only prometheus compatible backends will be supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus is a collector and backend at the same time. While you could reduce the backend settings to a minimum and mainly use the metrics forwarding to act as a collector/forwarder, the solution still isn't flexible. Only prometheus-compatible backends are supported.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: The VictoriaMetrics agent might be worth to mention here. It is compatible with Prometheus (scraping, remote write), but has a smaller footprint. It can even deal with the Prometheus Operator CRDs.

Author: true, could you propose a section please

Reviewer: lmk when it's ready for review again

Reviewer 2: ### Metrics - VictoriaMetrics Agent
The VictoriaMetrics project provides an agent that can receive metrics via different protocols and forward to a Prometheus compatible backend using the remote write protocol. The project claims to be more resource friendly than a full Prometheus instance. Their Kubernetes operator can consume Prometheus-Operator objects.

> **Metrics - Telegraf**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Metrics - Telegraf
```

> Has a broad community, supports various input/outputs and supports kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Telegraf has a broad community, supports various input and outputs, and supports Kubernetes
```

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Conclusion
```

> Seeing the wide adoption of OpenTelemetry and the grow of the Community, seeing that it will cover all three data kind in a consistent way, seeing it fully vendor-neutral, seeing it written in a resource-efficient and scalable way, then the `otel-collector` is the way to go. It covers all requirements and brings the consistency on top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `otel-collector` is the way to go because of the following reasons:
- OpenTelemetry is widely adopted and the community is growing.
- It covers all three kinds of telemetry data in a consistent way.
- It's fully vendor-neutral. 
- It's written in a resource-efficient and scalable way.
The `otel-collector` covers all requirements and on top, it brings consistency.
```

> However, only in the trace dimension it already gets classified as mature enough, see also recent [announcement](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.21/opentelemetry/) of jaeger. In the metrics and log dimension it might be good to still stay on some alternative solution, being ready to switch to `otel-collector` when ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, only in the trace dimension it is already classified as mature enough (see also recent [Jaeger announcement](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.21/opentelemetry/)). In the metrics and log dimension, it might be good to still stay on some alternative solution, being prepared to switch to `otel-collector` when it's mature.
```

> For logs, the only real vendor-neutral solution which is supporting kubernetes natively is `fluent-bit` (with optional combination with `FluentD`). As Kyma has good experience with the project already, we should stay with it till the otel-collector is ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For logs, the only real vendor-neutral solution that supports Kubernetes natively is Fluent Bit (optionally combined with `FluentD`). Because Kyma has good experience with the project already, we should stay with it till the otel-collector is mature.
```

> For metrics, telegraf sounds like a good intermediate candidate however the transition from prometheus to it and then forward to the otel-collector sounds cumbersome. Maybe we should stay for now on prometheus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For metrics, Telegraf sounds like a good intermediate candidate. However, the transition from Prometheus to it and then forward to the otel-collector seems to be cumbersome. Maybe we should stay on Prometheus for now.
```

### Metrics - Telegraf
Telegraf has a broad community, supports various input and outputs, and supports Kubernetes

### Metrics - VictoriaMetrics Agent

> The VictoriaMetrics project provides an agent that can receive metrics via different protocols and forward to a Prometheus compatible backend using the remote write protocol. The project claims to be more resource friendly than a full Prometheus instance. Their Kubernetes operator can consume Prometheus-Operator objects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VictoriaMetrics project provides an agent that can receive metrics using different protocols and forward them to a Prometheus-compatible backend using the remote write protocol. The project claims to be more resource-friendly than a full Prometheus instance. Their Kubernetes operator can consume Prometheus-Operator objects. 
```
